.. _quick_tutorial:

====================
Quick tutorial 
====================

Every single part of code block will be full example, so you can copy &
paste it to play with it


Insert / Save / Store
---------------------

    I want to store 100 objects in database

.. literalinclude:: quick_key_value.py
   :linenos:

**Status**

- Autogenerated ``_id`` field
- Simple key-value

As you can see database usage is very easy. That was the simplest
usage of CodernityDB.


Get / Query
-----------

    What if I would query database for ``x`` values ?

.. literalinclude:: quick_key_value2.py
   :linenos:

As you can see now we can get a record with given ``x`` value. And
don't worry ``X`` index will be not affected with ``y`` assignments in
``33-35`` line.

Now you can run

.. code-block:: python

    print db.count(db.all, 'id')
    print db.count(db.all, 'x')

As you expected, it will print you ``200`` and then ``100`` because
only ``100`` records have ``x`` value, so they were indexed in ``X`` index

**Status**

- Possibility to query by ``x`` value.

Duplicates
----------

    What if I have duplicate key values ?

.. literalinclude:: quick_key_value3.py
    :linenos:

As you can see database supports duplicate keys.

.. warning::

   Using Hash index, you can't rely on record order, using
   :py:meth:`~CodernityDB.database.Database.all` or
   :py:meth:`~CodernityDB.database.Database.get_many`.

Ordered data
------------

    OK, but I would to have them in order from range?

.. literalinclude:: quick_key_value4.py
   :linenos:


**Status**

- Possibility to get ordered values from given range

As you can see, it's not that hard. Just change the base from
HashIndex to TreeBasedIndex.


Update / Delete
---------------

    OK, cool, what about updates ?

Update is very easy, let's say you want to update all documents that
have ``x % 5 == 0`` and delete those with ``x % 7 == 0``.

.. literalinclude:: quick_update.py
   :linenos:

Isn't it easy ?


Index functions
---------------

    I would like to calculate some averages...

There are two ways to do it:

* Outside Database

.. literalinclude:: quick_key_value5_1.py
    :linenos:


* Inside Database

.. literalinclude:: quick_key_value5_2.py
    :linenos:

Using that function *inside database* will perform much better when
you will use |CodernityDB-HTTP-link| because then calculations will be
done server side. It will also allow you to reuse the same logic code
in different places.

In that examples we assumed that ``t`` value is not stored in our
``X`` index.

.. note::
   If you're |CodernityDB-HTTP-link| with |CodernityDB-PyClient-link|
   you should just change Database initialization (set host & port).


.. _tables_collections_q2:

Tables, collections...?
-------------------------

    OK, I got it, but can I store more than one data type in Database. Is there something like table or collection ?

Please refer to :ref:`tables_collections_q` for this task.
